Now what is a filter? A filter is basically a little syntax feature you can use in your template to transform
some output in the template
and that is important,
a filter helps you transform output in the data,
it doesn't transform the data itself, it only transforms what the user sees, a typical example and
actually a filter we will build is a filter which takes an input, a string let's say and turns it all
to uppercase letters. Important, vuejs doesn't ship with built-in filters and therefore all the filters
we need have to be built by our own,
I will show you how to build such a filter now and thereafter,
I'll also show you an alternative to filters and explain why this alternative oftentimes may be the better
choice but let's start with building our own filter.
So I want to build a filter, so let's say here in my application here, I have some data and in this data
of course, I returned my data object as always, in this object
I get some text I want to output, this text could simply be
hello there.
Now what I want to do is I want to output this text here
and of course I can use string interpolation for that with double curly braces and with my server
running, we see hello
there, not too spectacular, has nothing to do with filters.
Now I want to turn this text to be all uppercase,
important thing is I don't want to make it uppercase in this data property itself, text should stay as
it is,
I want to give it back an uppercase form in the template only. For that, we will create a filter and
we do create such a filter by adding the filters property here to our object,
this will create a new filter which we can use in this components template.
Important,
this will register this filter locally so it can actually only be used in this template and the template
of this component of this instance, you can of course also register a filter globally with vue filter.
Now if you register it globally, you have as a first argument the name of the filter,
let's name it to-lowercase for example
and I will work on this in a second
and here in our local filter, we have the key as the name for the filter,
I'll name it to-uppercase,
so like this maybe to-uppercase, of course I could have also used the camel case syntax we saw before
for components.
And now a filter is only a function and we can use such a string key name for a function,
again the alternative would be to use toUppercase, like this.
Now this function here always gets a value as the input, the value will be the data we want to transform
and I will show you how to pass the data there in a second but be aware that each filter will get a
value because that is what a filter's
there for, transform some data. That value can then be used to do any operation on it
and then in the end, we have to return the transformed value or could be the same value if you don't want
to do anything but then the filters are that useful.
So here I want to simply say return value to uppercase,
this will turn it to all being uppercase, to all characters being uppercase and will return this updated
value,
I can then use this filter in this template since it is a local filter by adding the pipe symbol here,
this might resemble Angular 2 pipes if you know Angular 2 and it works very much the same
and then the filter name,
so here that would be to uppercase, like that for example.
Now with this registered here, I can now hit save
and we see hello there in all uppercase and now with that, we created our own filter, this is how easy
it is, just the function, getting a value and returning the transformed value.
It gets the value automatically because we add it here with the pipe symbol and that will vuejs
to take the piece in front of the pipe and put it or pass it as a value to this function, to the uppercase
function.
That is why we create such a filter,
let me next show you how you create a global filter, how to register it globally as we do here
and then how to chain multiple filters.